The President: Hi, everybody.
At a time when our businesses
have created 9.2 million new
jobs in just over four years,
and more companies are
considering bringing
jobs back from overseas,
we have a choice to make.
We can make it easier for
businesses to invest in America
- or we can make it harder.
I want to work with
Congress to create jobs
and opportunity for
more Americans.
But where Congress
won't act, I will.
And I want to talk about three
things we're doing right now.
First, we're helping more
businesses bring jobs
to America from overseas.
Three years ago, my
Administration created SelectUSA
- a team of people in embassies
abroad and agencies here
at home focused on insourcing
instead of outsourcing.
Today, they're helping a Belgian
company create jobs in Oklahoma.
They're helping a Canadian
company create jobs in Kansas.
In my State of
the Union Address,
I asked more businesses
to do their part.
And this week, business leaders
from across the country are
coming here to the White House
to discuss new investments
that will create even more jobs.
Second, on Thursday, I'll
be heading to Cooperstown,
New York - home of the
Baseball Hall of Fame -
to talk about tourism.
Because believe it or not,
tourism is an export.
And if we make it easier for
more foreign visitors to visit
and spend money at America's
attractions and unparalleled
national parks, that helps
local businesses and grows
the economy for everyone.
Finally, we know that investing
in first-class infrastructure
attracts first-class jobs.
And I want to spend
a minute on this,
because it's very
important this year.
We know business owners don't
seek out crumbling roads
and bridges and
backed-up supply chains.
They set up shop
where the newest,
fastest transportation and
communications networks
let them invent and sell
goods Made in America
to the rest of the world
as fast as possible.
Here's the problem: If
Congress doesn't act
by the end of this
summer, federal funding
for transportation
projects will run out.
States might have to put some
of their projects on hold.
In fact, some already are,
because they're worried
Congress won't clear
up its own gridlock.
And if Congress fails
to act, nearly 700,000
jobs would be at
risk over the next year.
That's why I put forward
a plan to rebuild our
transportation infrastructure
in a more responsible way.
It would support millions
of jobs across the country.
And we'd pay for it without
adding to the deficit by closing
wasteful tax loopholes
for companies that ship
jobs overseas.
Now, the Republicans in
Congress seem to have
very different priorities.
Not only have they neglected
to prevent this funding from
running out, their proposal
would actually cut by 80%
a job-creating grant program
that has funded high-priority
transportation projects
in all 50 states.
And they can't say
it's to save money,
because at the very same time,
they voted for trillions
of dollars in new tax cuts,
weighted towards those
at the very top.
Think about that.
Instead of putting people to
work on projects that would grow
the economy for everyone, they
voted to give a huge tax cut
to households making more
than $1 million a year.
So while Congress decides
what it's going to do,
I'll keep doing what
I can on my own.
On Wednesday, I was in New York
where workers are building
the area's first large new
bridge in 50 years.
And they're doing it
ahead of schedule.
Three years ago, I took action
without Congress to fast-track
the permitting process
for major projects.
Normally, it would have
taken three to five years
to permit that bridge.
We did it in a year and a half.
And I announced a new plan to
cut red tape and speed up the
process for even more
projects across the country.
All these steps will make
it easier for businesses
to invest in America and create
more good jobs.
All of them can be
done without Congress.
But we could do a lot more if
Congress was willing to help.
In the meantime, I'll do
whatever I can - not just
to make America a better
place to do business,
but to make sure
hard work pays off,
and opportunity is open to all.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.